README.md, before:

# withdrawer

Golang utility for proving and finalizing ETH withdrawals from op-stack chains.

<!-- Badge row 1 - status -->

[![GitHub contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/base/withdrawer)](https://github.com/base/withdrawer/graphs/contributors)
[![GitHub commit activity](https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/w/base/withdrawer)](https://github.com/base/withdrawer/graphs/commit-activity)
[![GitHub Stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/base/withdrawer.svg)](https://github.com/base/withdrawer/stargazers)
![GitHub repo size](https://img.shields.io/github/repo-size/base/withdrawer)
[![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/license/base/withdrawer?color=blue)](https://github.com/base/withdrawer/blob/main/LICENSE)

<!-- Badge row 2 - links and profiles -->

[![Website base.org](https://img.shields.io/website-up-down-green-red/https/base.org.svg)](https://base.org)
[![Blog](https://img.shields.io/badge/blog-up-green)](https://base.mirror.xyz/)
[![Docs](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-up-green)](https://docs.base.org/)
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/1067165013397213286?label=discord)](https://base.org/discord)
[![Twitter BuildOnBase](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/BuildOnBase?style=social)](https://x.com/BuildOnBase)

<!-- Badge row 3 - detailed status -->

[![GitHub pull requests by-label](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr-raw/base/withdrawer)](https://github.com/base/withdrawer/pulls)
[![GitHub Issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-raw/base/withdrawer.svg)](https://github.com/base/withdrawer/issues)

## Installation

```
git clone https://github.com/base/withdrawer.git
cd withdrawer
go install .
```

## Usage

> [!CAUTION]
> Do not send ERC-20 or other tokens to the L2StandardBridge, only native ETH is supported.

### Without Fault Proofs

#### Step 1

Initiate a withdrawal on L2 by sending ETH to the `L2StandardBridge` contract at `0x4200000000000000000000000000000000000010`, and note the tx hash.
Example on Base Sepolia: [0x5e47346867cf87d8e8c82cae1d30a94b8d5587dc9d354aef5c5a7b4c84ad9463](https://sepolia.basescan.org/tx/0x5e47346867cf87d8e8c82cae1d30a94b8d5587dc9d354aef5c5a7b4c84ad9463).

> [!NOTE]
> Users are required to wait for a period of seven days when moving assets out of Base mainnet into the Ethereum mainnet. This period of time is called the Challenge Period and serves to help secure the assets stored on Base mainnet.

#### Step 2

Prove your withdrawal:

```
withdrawer --network base-mainnet --withdrawal <withdrawal tx hash> --rpc <L1 RPC URL> --private-key <L1 private key>
```

or use a ledger:

```
withdrawer --network base-mainnet --withdrawal <withdrawal tx hash> --rpc <L1 RPC URL> --ledger
```

Example output:

```
Proved withdrawal for 0xc4055dcb2e4647c37166caba8c7392625c2b62f9117a8bc4d96270da24b38f13: 0x6b6d1cc45b6601a30646847f638847feb629221ee71bbe6a3de7e6d0fbfe8fad
waiting for tx confirmation
0x6b6d1cc45b6601a30646847f638847feb629221ee71bbe6a3de7e6d0fbfe8fad confirmed
```

_Note: this can be called from any L1 address, it does not have to be the same address that initiated the withdrawal on the L2._

#### Step 3

After the finalization period, finalize your withdrawal (same command as above):

```
withdrawer --network base-mainnet --withdrawal <withdrawal tx hash> --rpc <L1 RPC URL> --private-key <L1 private key>
```

Example output:

```
Completed withdrawal for 0xc4055dcb2e4647c37166caba8c7392625c2b62f9117a8bc4d96270da24b38f13: 0x1c457f1992f48f1f959ceaee5b3c7e699a26f6f05d93997d49dafe703fd66dea
waiting for tx confirmation
0x1c457f1992f48f1f959ceaee5b3c7e699a26f6f05d93997d49dafe703fd66dea confirmed
```

_Note: this can be called from any L1 address, it does not have to be the same address that initiated the withdrawal on the L2._

### With Fault Proofs

> [!NOTE]
> With the recent fault proofs upgrade for Base on Sepolia testnet, withdrawals are required to wait for a period of seven days. This mirrors the Challenge Period that exists for Base mainnet. Additionally, withdrawals are required to be finalized against dispute games that resolve in favor of the output root claim. If the dispute game is blacklisted, resolves against the output root claim (challenger wins), or the respected game type is changed, then the withdrawal will need to be re-proven.

#### Step 1

Initiate a withdrawal on L2 by sending ETH to the `L2StandardBridge` contract at `0x4200000000000000000000000000000000000010`, and note the tx hash.
Example on Base Sepolia: [0x5e47346867cf87d8e8c82cae1d30a94b8d5587dc9d354aef5c5a7b4c84ad9463](https://sepolia.basescan.org/tx/0x5e47346867cf87d8e8c82cae1d30a94b8d5587dc9d354aef5c5a7b4c84ad9463).

#### Step 2

Prove your withdrawal:

```
withdrawer --network base-mainnet --withdrawal <withdrawal tx hash> --rpc <L1 RPC URL> --private-key <L1 private key> --fault-proofs
```

or use a ledger:

```
withdrawer --network base-mainnet --withdrawal <withdrawal tx hash> --rpc <L1 RPC URL> --ledger --fault-proofs
```

Example output:

```
Proved withdrawal for 0xc4055dcb2e4647c37166caba8c7392625c2b62f9117a8bc4d96270da24b38f13: 0x6b6d1cc45b6601a30646847f638847feb629221ee71bbe6a3de7e6d0fbfe8fad
waiting for tx confirmation
0x6b6d1cc45b6601a30646847f638847feb629221ee71bbe6a3de7e6d0fbfe8fad confirmed
```

_Note: this can be called from any L1 address, it does not have to be the same address that initiated the withdrawal on the L2._

#### Step 3

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Unlike the non fault proof withdrawal flow, you MUST use the same address that proved the withdrawal to finalize the withdrawal.

After the dispute game has resolved in favor of the root claim AND the finalization period has elapsed, finalize your withdrawal (same command as above):

```
withdrawer --network base-mainnet --withdrawal <withdrawal tx hash> --rpc <L1 RPC URL> --private-key <L1 private key> --fault-proofs
```

Example output:

```
Completed withdrawal for 0xc4055dcb2e4647c37166caba8c7392625c2b62f9117a8bc4d96270da24b38f13: 0x1c457f1992f48f1f959ceaee5b3c7e699a26f6f05d93997d49dafe703fd66dea
waiting for tx confirmation
0x1c457f1992f48f1f959ceaee5b3c7e699a26f6f05d93997d49dafe703fd66dea confirmed
```

## Flags

```
Usage of withdrawer:
    -rpc string
        Ethereum L1 RPC url
    -network string
        op-stack network to withdraw.go from (one of: base-mainnet, base-sepolia, op-mainnet, op-sepolia) (default "base-mainnet")
    -withdrawal string
        TX hash of the L2 withdrawal transaction
    -fault-proofs
        Use fault proofs withdrawal flow (only for networks that support fault proofs)
    -private-key string
        Private key to use for signing transactions
    -mnemonic string
        Mnemonic to use for signing transactions
    -ledger
        Use ledger device for signing transactions
    -hd-path string
        Hierarchical deterministic derivation path for mnemonic or ledger (default "m/44'/60'/0'/0/0")
    -l2-rpc string
        Custom network L2 RPC url
    -l2oo-address string
        Custom network L2OutputOracle address
    -portal-address string
        Custom network OptimismPortal address
    -dfg-address string
        Custom network DisputeGameFactory address (only for networks that support fault proofs)
```

Commit message:

Update README.md (recommend suitable L1 RPC for withdrawals)

README.md, after:

# withdrawer

Golang utility for proving and finalizing ETH withdrawals from op-stack chains.

<!-- Badge row 1 - status -->

[![GitHub contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/base/withdrawer)](https://github.com/base/withdrawer/graphs/contributors)
[![GitHub commit activity](https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/w/base/withdrawer)](https://github.com/base/withdrawer/graphs/commit-activity)
[![GitHub Stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/base/withdrawer.svg)](https://github.com/base/withdrawer/stargazers)
![GitHub repo size](https://img.shields.io/github/repo-size/base/withdrawer)
[![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/license/base/withdrawer?color=blue)](https://github.com/base/withdrawer/blob/main/LICENSE)

<!-- Badge row 2 - links and profiles -->

[![Website base.org](https://img.shields.io/website-up-down-green-red/https/base.org.svg)](https://base.org)
[![Blog](https://img.shields.io/badge/blog-up-green)](https://base.mirror.xyz/)
[![Docs](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-up-green)](https://docs.base.org/)
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/1067165013397213286?label=discord)](https://base.org/discord)
[![Twitter BuildOnBase](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/BuildOnBase?style=social)](https://x.com/BuildOnBase)

<!-- Badge row 3 - detailed status -->

[![GitHub pull requests by-label](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr-raw/base/withdrawer)](https://github.com/base/withdrawer/pulls)
[![GitHub Issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-raw/base/withdrawer.svg)](https://github.com/base/withdrawer/issues)

## Installation

```
git clone https://github.com/base/withdrawer.git
cd withdrawer
go install .
```

## Usage

> [!CAUTION]
> Do not send ERC-20 or other tokens to the L2StandardBridge, only native ETH is supported.
When choosing an L1 RPC endpoint, make sure it can access historical blocks for the withdrawal you are proving or finalizing. Archive‑style RPC providers are recommended if you are working with older withdrawals.

### Without Fault Proofs

#### Step 1

Initiate a withdrawal on L2 by sending ETH to the `L2StandardBridge` contract at `0x4200000000000000000000000000000000000010`, and note the tx hash.
Example on Base Sepolia: [0x5e47346867cf87d8e8c82cae1d30a94b8d5587dc9d354aef5c5a7b4c84ad9463](https://sepolia.basescan.org/tx/0x5e47346867cf87d8e8c82cae1d30a94b8d5587dc9d354aef5c5a7b4c84ad9463).

> [!NOTE]
> Users are required to wait for a period of seven days when moving assets out of Base mainnet into the Ethereum mainnet. This period of time is called the Challenge Period and serves to help secure the assets stored on Base mainnet.

#### Step 2

Prove your withdrawal:

```
withdrawer --network base-mainnet --withdrawal <withdrawal tx hash> --rpc <L1 RPC URL> --private-key <L1 private key>
```

or use a ledger:

```
withdrawer --network base-mainnet --withdrawal <withdrawal tx hash> --rpc <L1 RPC URL> --ledger
```

Example output:

```
Proved withdrawal for 0xc4055dcb2e4647c37166caba8c7392625c2b62f9117a8bc4d96270da24b38f13: 0x6b6d1cc45b6601a30646847f638847feb629221ee71bbe6a3de7e6d0fbfe8fad
waiting for tx confirmation
0x6b6d1cc45b6601a30646847f638847feb629221ee71bbe6a3de7e6d0fbfe8fad confirmed
```

_Note: this can be called from any L1 address, it does not have to be the same address that initiated the withdrawal on the L2._

#### Step 3

After the finalization period, finalize your withdrawal (same command as above):

```
withdrawer --network base-mainnet --withdrawal <withdrawal tx hash> --rpc <L1 RPC URL> --private-key <L1 private key>
```

Example output:

```
Completed withdrawal for 0xc4055dcb2e4647c37166caba8c7392625c2b62f9117a8bc4d96270da24b38f13: 0x1c457f1992f48f1f959ceaee5b3c7e699a26f6f05d93997d49dafe703fd66dea
waiting for tx confirmation
0x1c457f1992f48f1f959ceaee5b3c7e699a26f6f05d93997d49dafe703fd66dea confirmed
```

_Note: this can be called from any L1 address, it does not have to be the same address that initiated the withdrawal on the L2._

### With Fault Proofs

> [!NOTE]
> With the recent fault proofs upgrade for Base on Sepolia testnet, withdrawals are required to wait for a period of seven days. This mirrors the Challenge Period that exists for Base mainnet. Additionally, withdrawals are required to be finalized against dispute games that resolve in favor of the output root claim. If the dispute game is blacklisted, resolves against the output root claim (challenger wins), or the respected game type is changed, then the withdrawal will need to be re-proven.

#### Step 1

Initiate a withdrawal on L2 by sending ETH to the `L2StandardBridge` contract at `0x4200000000000000000000000000000000000010`, and note the tx hash.
Example on Base Sepolia: [0x5e47346867cf87d8e8c82cae1d30a94b8d5587dc9d354aef5c5a7b4c84ad9463](https://sepolia.basescan.org/tx/0x5e47346867cf87d8e8c82cae1d30a94b8d5587dc9d354aef5c5a7b4c84ad9463).

#### Step 2

Prove your withdrawal:

```
withdrawer --network base-mainnet --withdrawal <withdrawal tx hash> --rpc <L1 RPC URL> --private-key <L1 private key> --fault-proofs
```

or use a ledger:

```
withdrawer --network base-mainnet --withdrawal <withdrawal tx hash> --rpc <L1 RPC URL> --ledger --fault-proofs
```

Example output:

```
Proved withdrawal for 0xc4055dcb2e4647c37166caba8c7392625c2b62f9117a8bc4d96270da24b38f13: 0x6b6d1cc45b6601a30646847f638847feb629221ee71bbe6a3de7e6d0fbfe8fad
waiting for tx confirmation
0x6b6d1cc45b6601a30646847f638847feb629221ee71bbe6a3de7e6d0fbfe8fad confirmed
```

_Note: this can be called from any L1 address, it does not have to be the same address that initiated the withdrawal on the L2._

#### Step 3

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Unlike the non fault proof withdrawal flow, you MUST use the same address that proved the withdrawal to finalize the withdrawal.

After the dispute game has resolved in favor of the root claim AND the finalization period has elapsed, finalize your withdrawal (same command as above):

```
withdrawer --network base-mainnet --withdrawal <withdrawal tx hash> --rpc <L1 RPC URL> --private-key <L1 private key> --fault-proofs
```

Example output:

```
Completed withdrawal for 0xc4055dcb2e4647c37166caba8c7392625c2b62f9117a8bc4d96270da24b38f13: 0x1c457f1992f48f1f959ceaee5b3c7e699a26f6f05d93997d49dafe703fd66dea
waiting for tx confirmation
0x1c457f1992f48f1f959ceaee5b3c7e699a26f6f05d93997d49dafe703fd66dea confirmed
```

## Flags

```
Usage of withdrawer:
    -rpc string
        Ethereum L1 RPC url
    -network string
        op-stack network to withdraw.go from (one of: base-mainnet, base-sepolia, op-mainnet, op-sepolia) (default "base-mainnet")
    -withdrawal string
        TX hash of the L2 withdrawal transaction
    -fault-proofs
        Use fault proofs withdrawal flow (only for networks that support fault proofs)
    -private-key string
        Private key to use for signing transactions
    -mnemonic string
        Mnemonic to use for signing transactions
    -ledger
        Use ledger device for signing transactions
    -hd-path string
        Hierarchical deterministic derivation path for mnemonic or ledger (default "m/44'/60'/0'/0/0")
    -l2-rpc string
        Custom network L2 RPC url
    -l2oo-address string
        Custom network L2OutputOracle address
    -portal-address string
        Custom network OptimismPortal address
    -dfg-address string
        Custom network DisputeGameFactory address (only for networks that support fault proofs)
```
